1. Which gene mutations (protein expression patterns, transcriptional RNA levels, etc.) are associated with resistance to chemotherapy and radiotherapy in breast cancer?
2. Which mutations, if any, lead to resistance to both chemotherapy and radiotherapy? Are there specific mutations that lead to cross resistance?
3. Which resistance mechanisms, if any, are unique to chemotherapy vs radiotherapy?
4. What percentage of metastatic breast cancer patients eventually develop resistance to 1st line systemic therapy?  What about 2nd, 3rd, or even 4th line therapy?
5. Are these resistance patterns (or genes, proteins, transcriptional RNA, etc.) correlated with TNM stage, grade, and ER/PR/HER2 status?  How do these clinical factors affect resistance mechanisms?
6. Is there a subset of breast cancer patients that is more likely to develop resistance (ie triple negative metastatic cases)?
7. Multiple mutations are already known to affect sensitivity to various targeted agents (ie BRCA 1/2, MSI-H, RET, PIK3CA, etc). How do expression levels of these genes/mutations change when a tumor develops resistance?
8. Where do mutation patterns overlap and differ between the various histologies: IDC, ILC, inflammatory, etc?
9. Is there a correlation between radionomics and resistance patterns?  Is there literature that demonstrates a consistent and statistically significant correlation between radinomics and resistance mechanisms?
10. How long, on average, does it take metastatic patients to develop resistance? We can specify the type of resistance here, ie, to immunotherapy (PF-L1 inhibitors), chemotherapy (doxorubicin, paclitaxel, capecitabine, etc), and targeted therapy (PARP inhibitors, NTRK inhibitors, etc).
11. Does Oncotype Dx, or the various mutations it tests for, predict future resistance? Oncotype Dx is a category 1 recommendation and thus the gold standard.  It assesses 21 different genes and provides both prognostic and predictive information.  For example, it is clinically used to determine what patients will benefit from chemotherapy bui is not necessarily used to determine resistance.  However, it may be useful to assess these core 21 genes.  There are other assays as well, such as MammaPrint, Prosigna, EndoPredict, and BCI.  Do these assays test for any unique genes not already covered by Oncotype, that may predict resistance?
12. How do resistance patterns vary according to the line of therapy? For example, are there unique differences in mutation patterns that confer resistance to 1st line vs 2nd line vs 3rd line therapy? Please note that systemic therapy varies greatly depending on hormone receptor status, stage of disease, PDL1 expression, mutation patterns, histology, and sequence with surgery.  We can narrow this down to a very specific subgroup depending on the clinical scenario.
13. Does radiotherapy alter gene expression levels for patients who receive chemotherapy, and vice versa?
14. What is the resistance mechanism to parp inhibitors in breast cancer patients with the BRCA 1/2 mutations? We can spin this question multiple ways.  For example, we can also ask about the resistance mechanism to NTRK inhibitors in patients with PIK3CA mutations or the mechanism of resistance to immunotherapy in patients with PD-L1 expression.
15. In the neoadjuvant setting, are there specific gene mutations that will predict tumor resistance to chemotherapy prior to surgery?  Can pre-operative radiotherapy influence these gene expression levels?
16. Is there data in the literature to suggest that pre-operative radiotherapy can reduce the rate of resistance?  If so, what gene expression levels change when radiotherapy is added?
17. What therapeutic options are being developed to overcome resistance?  Are any experimental drugs under clinical investigation?
18. How does stereotactic ablative radiotherapy affect tumors that have developed resistance to systemic therapy?  How does this differ from conventional radiation?
19. Are there any non-traditional radiation methods that have been used to study resistance patterns and/or overcome resistance?  (By non-traditional, I am referring to techniques such as spatially fractionated radiotherapy, ie GRID, pulsed reduced dose rate radiotherapy, flash radiation therapy, etc.
20. Can hyper- or hypo-fractionation alter resistance patterns as compared to conventionally fractionated radiation?